# Subset Sum problem

Each problem requires a solution. And the subset sum problem is not an exception.
Here, you can find an algorithm that effectively solves this problem in natural numbers for density > 1
Where density is:

```math
d = n / log2(max(S))
```

## A formal definition of the subset sum problem

- A set of positive integers S is given

- Also given a target X

- Find a subset s ∈ S such as:

```math
\sum_{i=0}^n s_n = X
```

## Usage

Just:

```shell
git clone git@gitlab.com:kirilenkobm/ssp.git
cd ssp
./_test.sh
```

## Contents

- "SSP.py" - the main script to solve SSP.

- "_test.sh and" "_test.bat" - make shared lib and run SSP.py - just in one command.

- "generate_input.py" - script to generate input set, and answers.

- "create_test_set.sh" - a wrapper around "generate_input.py".

- "perf_tests.ipynb" - Jupyter notebook containing performance and precision tests.

- "Makefile" and "Make_win.bat" - build instructions for MacOS/Linux and Windows, respectively.

- requirements.txt - Python libraries required to run "generate_input.py" and "perf_tests.ipynb".

- src/ - source files written in C.

- src_2/ - source code in development step to replace everything in C.

- bin/ - folder to hold combiled shared library.

- py_replacement/ - temporary Python implementation.

- performamce/ - folder to contain input files generated by "generate_input.py".

- test_input/ - folder containing test files just to check that everything works.

## Implementation details and limitations

The main part of the software is implemented in both Python and C.
C code is designed to be compiled as a shared library.
In turn, Python script "SSP.py" is wrapped around the shared library, taking care of argument parsing and verification of input.
Actually, the compiled library might be simply used individually, apart from the python script.
The minimal input for the Python wrapper is a text file with an integer number at each line (might be stdin as well) and an integer, representing the target.

The limitations are:

- The C-written path actively uses uint64_t data type, maximal capacity of which is 18446744073709551615, the majority of limitations are closely related to this number.

- All input numbers must be positive integers, zeros are allowed but don't make any sense in the context of problem.

- Number of input elements should not exceed the uint64_t maximal capacity.

- Each input number also should not exceed the uint64_t capacity.

- The most regrettable restriction - input array sum also should not exceed the uint64_t capacity due to the algorithm design. Shifting of this limit to __uint128_t capacity is planned.

- Requested sum cannot be smaller than the smallest element of array.

- Also, the target should not be bigger than he overall sum of input array.

Master script SSP.py and C code don't require any external libraries.

## Performance measurements

Complexity in the worst case:

```math
O(N^5)
```

TODO: check that it's true
